On the burning February morning Beatriz Viterbo died, after braving an agony that never for a single moment gave way to self-pity or fear, I noticed that the sidewalk billboards around Constitution Plaza were advertising some new brand or other of American cigarettes.
Fancy your coming out and asking me, of all people, about the late Francisco Real.
I have mislaid the letter, but a couple of years or so ago Gannon wrote me from his ranch up in Gualeguaychú saying he would send me a translation, perhaps the very first into Spanish, of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s poem “The Past,” and adding in a P.S. that don Pedro Damián, whom I might recall, had died of a lung ailment a few nights earlier.
Bioy-Casares brought back with him from London a strange dagger with a triangular blade and a hilt in the shape of an H; a friend of ours, Christopher Dewey of the British Council, told us that such weapons were commonly used in India.
All over the Argentine runs a story that may belong to legend or to history or (which may be just another way of saying it belongs to legend) to both things at once.
This story is told out in one of the old frontier towns—either Junín or Tapalquén.
Until then, he had never dwelled on the pleasures of memory.
Whoever could have foreseen, way back in that innocent summer of 1923, that the novelette The Chosen One by Camilo N. Huergo, presented to me by the author with his personal inscription on the flyleaf (which I had the decorum to tear out before offering the volume for sale to successive men of the book trade), hid under the thin varnish of fiction a prophetic truth.
I want to leave a written record (perhaps the first to be attempted) of one of the strangest and grimmest happenings in Argentine history.
It was in Cambridge, back in February, 1969, that the event took place.
My story will be true to reality or, in any case, to my personal memory of reality, which amounts to the same thing
My story is about two men or, rather, about an episode involving two men.
The event took place in Montevideo in 1897.
The visible body of work left by the novelist Pierre Menard is easily and briefly listed.
When Herbert Quain died recently, at his home in Roscommon, it came as no surprise to me that The Times Literary Supplement granted him a bare half column of pious valediction, none of whose complimentary adjectives went unmodified — and considerably tempered — by an adverb.
